# Mode-Master
Currently live at:
https://modemaster.herokuapp.com/

Simple Node.js / Express webapp to help guitarists learn the diatonic modes.

This project was requested by a guitar-teacher friend named Todd Hoskin, who wanted to transition from using paper charts to using something that his students could reference on their smartphones.

I designed the UI myself, including a hand-coded SVG that the app generates programmatically while loading the page.

UI/UX Considerations:
- Focus on mobile
- Render the app in a single page
- Use an intuitive touch interface
- Clearly mark system status by highlighting the outline of selected divs + using a consistent color scheme to indicate the selected mode / scale degree
- Instructions should be displayed without requiring extra user input. I've placed them below the mode wheel -- that way new users can easily access them, but old users can focus on the upper portion of the app without the text cluttering the main part that they'll be using, and without interrupting the user experience


Considerations for Future Revisions:
- Improve responsiveness. While I use relative units and media queries to accommodate different resolutions, it still looks a bit janky, and Desktop rendering has overlapping text.
- A lot of strings are hardcoded. The app is small enough for this not to be a huge issue, but there are ways to make memory usage more efficient.
- The SVGs are generated by concatenating strings. This feels kind of hacky.
- Programmatic generation of SVGs is time-consuming.
- Different JS modules are tightly coupled, and the programmatic generation of strings for HTML tags isn't ideal. 
- Since I use the "stroke-color" attribute to denote which SVG arc is selected, whichever arc is rendered last will be displayed on top of all other arcs. This causes overlapping outlines for shapes and looks a bit unprofessional. One solution is to draw even more arcs, set fill to none, and toggle invisible stroke and white stroke-color as an overlay. I don't like this plan though, since it would add extra weight to the app.
